[New] Connect TimescaleDB and Grafana (#1223)
timescale/docs: timescaledb/tutorials/grafana/grafana-timescalecloud.md

import Component from '../../../_partials/_cloudtrial.mdx';

# Connect TimescaleDB and Grafana
Grafana ships with built-in Prometheus, PostgreSQL, Jaeger, and other data
source plugins that allow you to query and visualize data from a compatible
database. To add a data source in Grafana you must be signed as a user with
organization administration role privileges.

To connect Grafana with TimescaleCloud database instance, install Grafana. For
information about installing Grafana, see the [Grafana installation documentation][grafana-install].

This section shows you how to connect TimescaleCloud database instance as data
source in [Grafana][grafana-homepage].

## Configure TimscaleDB as a data source

> To configure TimscaleCloud database as data source you need the create a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To configure TimscaleCloud database as a data source you need to create a
```

> TimescaleDB service and then configure TimescaleDB as the data source in

Reviewer: ```suggestion
service, and then configure TimescaleDB as the data source in
```

Grafana.

<procedure>

### Creating a TimescaleDB service

1.  Sign in to the [Timescale Cloud portal][tsc-portal].
1.  Click `Create service`.
1.  You can choose to build your service with or without demo data. 
1.  Click `Download the cheatsheet`. This `.sql` file contains the credentials
    that you require to configure TimescaleDB as a data source on Grafana.

> <Component />
> </procedure>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Component />

</procedure>
```

# Connect TimescaleDB and Grafana
Grafana ships with built-in Prometheus, PostgreSQL, Jaeger, and other data
source plugins that allow you to query and visualize data from a compatible
database. To add a data source in Grafana you must be signed as a user with
organization administration role privileges.

To connect Grafana with TimescaleCloud database instance, install Grafana. For
information about installing Grafana, see the [Grafana installation documentation][grafana-install].

> This section shows you how to connect TimescaleCloud database instance as data
> source in [Grafana][grafana-homepage].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This section shows you how to connect a Timescale Cloud database as your data
source in [Grafana][grafana-homepage].
```

> ## Configure TimscaleDB as a data source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Configure Timescale Cloud as a data source
```

> To configure TimscaleCloud database as data source you need the create a
> TimescaleDB service and then configure TimescaleDB as the data source in
> Grafana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To configure a Timsecale Cloud database as the data source, first create a
Timescale Cloud service. Then configure TimescaleDB as the data source in
Grafana.
```

<procedure>

> ### Creating a TimescaleDB service

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Creating a Timescale Cloud service
```

> ### Creating a TimescaleDB service

Reviewer 2: Should we have install instructions in here, or just point people to the install instructions? I'm leaning towards the latter, because repeating them is creating a maintenance burden. Or you could format it as a partial.

Author: Yes @charislam !!!! I was contemplating on that and noticed that the current install instructions does not provide a step to save the Download cheat sheet and that step is crucial for this connection to work.

1.  Sign in to the [Timescale Cloud portal][tsc-portal].
1.  Click `Create service`.
1.  You can choose to build your service with or without demo data. 
1.  Click `Download the cheatsheet`. This `.sql` file contains the credentials
    that you require to configure TimescaleDB as a data source on Grafana.

<highlight type="important">
Your Timescale Cloud trial is completely free for you to use for the first
thirty days. This gives you enough time to complete all our tutorials and run a
few test projects of your own.
</highlight>
</procedure>

<procedure>

> ### Configuring TimescaleDB as data source

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Configuring TimescaleDB as your data source
```

1.  Navigate to `Configuration` → `Data sources`. The data sources page lists
    previously configured data sources for the Grafana instance.
1.  Click `Add data source` to see a list of all supported data sources.
1.  Type `PostgreSQL` in the search field and click `Select`.
1.  Configure the data source:

>     *   In the `Name` field, type name that you would like for dataset on TimescaleDB.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   In the `Name` field, enter a name for your TimescaleDB dataset.
```

>     *   In the `PostgreSQL Connection` section, type the  `Database`, `User`,
>         and `Password` fields using the `.sql` file that you downloaded when
>         creating the TimescaleDB service. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   In the `PostgreSQL Connection` section, enter the  `Database`, `User`,
        and `Password` fields for your Timescale Cloud Service.
        You can find the correct values in the `.sql` file that you downloaded when
        creating the service. 
```

>     *   In the `Host` type `<HOST>:<PORT>` from the `.sql` file that you downloaded.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   In the `Host` field, enter `<HOST>:<PORT>`. The host and
        port values are in the same `.sql` file.
```

>     *   Set `TLS/SSL Mode` as `require`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   Set `TLS/SSL Mode` to `require`.
```

>     *   In `PostgreSQL details` enable `TimescaleDB`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    *   In `PostgreSQL details`, enable `TimescaleDB`.
```

> 1.  Click `Save & test` button. If the connection is successful

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1.  Click `Save & test`. If the connection is successful,
```

    `Database Connection OK` appears. 

</procedure>

> When you have configured TimescaleDB as a data source in Grafana, you can create panels that are populated with data using SQL.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now that you've configured TimescaleDB as a data source,
you can use SQL queries to get data for your Grafana panels.
To learn more about Grafana panels, see the
[Grafana visualizations section][grafana-visualizations].
```

[grafana-install]: https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/installation/

> [grafana-homepage]: https://grafana.com/

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[grafana-homepage]: https://grafana.com/
[grafana-visualizations]: /timescaledb/:currentVersion:/tutorials/grafana/visualizations/
```

# Connect TimescaleDB and Grafana
Grafana ships with built-in Prometheus, PostgreSQL, Jaeger, and other data
source plugins that allow you to query and visualize data from a compatible
database. To add a data source in Grafana, you must be signed in as a user with
organization administration role privileges.

To connect Grafana with a Timescale Cloud database, install Grafana. For
information about installing Grafana, see the [Grafana installation documentation][grafana-install].

This section shows you how to connect a Timescale Cloud database as your data
source in [Grafana][grafana-homepage].

## Configure Timescale Cloud as a data source
To configure a Timsecale Cloud database as the data source, first create a
Timescale Cloud service. Then configure TimescaleDB as the data source in
Grafana.

<procedure>

### Creating a Timescale Cloud service

1.  Sign in to the [Timescale Cloud portal][tsc-portal].
1.  Click `Create service`.
1.  You can choose to build your service with or without demo data. 
1.  Click `Download the cheatsheet`. This `.sql` file contains the credentials

>     that you require to configure TimescaleDB as a data source on Grafana.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    that you need to configure TimescaleDB as a data source on Grafana.
```

<highlight type="important">
Your Timescale Cloud trial is completely free for you to use for the first
thirty days. This gives you enough time to complete all our tutorials and run a
few test projects of your own.

> </highlight>

Reviewer: We can probably snippetize this

Author: Agreed!!!!!

Author: Hi, @Loquacity !!! Just created the partials.
